Lost #483 op (#567)
Geonovum/KP-APIs: API-strategie-modulen/API-strategie-mod-geo/request-response.md

  </p>
  <h4 class="rulelab">How to test</h4>
  <ul>

>     <li>Issue an HTTP GET request to the API, including the <code>bbox</code> query parameter and <code>bbox-crs</code> header containing a CRS supported by the provider. If the provider supports CRS84 then the <code>bbox-crs</code> header may be omitted.</li>

Reviewer: > If the provider supports CRS84

Dit is verplicht als de API OGC API Features compliant is. Ik zou dit zinnetje hier weg laten, is verwarrend.

>     <li>Issue an HTTP GET request to the API, including the <code>bbox</code> query parameter and <code>bbox-crs</code> heaeder containing a CRS supported by the provider. If the provider supports CRS84 than the <code>bbox-crs</code> header may be omitted.</li>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    <li>Issue an HTTP GET request to the API, including the <code>bbox</code> query parameter and <code>bbox-crs</code> header containing a CRS supported by the provider. If the provider supports CRS84 than the <code>bbox-crs</code> header may be omitted.</li>
```

    <li>Validate that a response with status code 200 is returned.</li>
    <li>Verify that only features that have a spatial geometry that intersects the bounding box are returned as part of the result set.</li>
  </ul>
</div>

TO DO 

> Bovenstaande voorbeeld is redundant met het voorbeeld bij API-GEO-10. Het lijkt me goed om hier het voorbeeld van bbox te gebruiken en bij API-GEO-10 een ander voorbeeld, of vanuit API-GEO-10 te verwijzen naar dit voorbeeld of andersom.

Reviewer: ik denk dat je in API-GEO-2 een voorbeeld zou kunnen gebruiken van bbox parameter, en in API-GEO-10 eentje met bbox EN bbox-crs parameters. En of dat dan dezelfde coordinaten zijn maakt niet zo uit.

<aside class="note">
Spatial filtering is an extensive topic. There are use cases for geospatial operators like <code>intersects</code> or <code>within</code>. Geospatial filters can be large and complex, which sometimes causes problems since <code>GET</code> may not have a payload (although supported by some clients). 

More complex spatial filtering is not addressed in this module. A new API Design Rules module on filtering will address spatial as well as non-spatial filtering. [[ogcapi-features-3]] will provide input for this.

TO DO 

> Moet hier een requirement worden opgenomen, dat als er met geometrie gezocht wordt, tenminste GeoJSON <code>Geometry</code> objecten ondersteund moeten worden? Of als de geometrie niet in GeoJSON past (curves etc.) dat dan WKT en WKB ondersteund moeten worden?

Reviewer: het zou kunnen - is ergens wel logisch om toe te voegen - ik aarzel wel om nog dingen toe te voegen.

Author: Ik heb een opmerking in #536 opgenomen.

  Example: feature
  <pre>
  {
    "type": "Feature",
    "id": "0308100000022041",
    "geometry":  {
      "type": "Point",
      "coordinates": [5.2795,52.1933]
    },
    "properties": {
      "naam": "Paleis Soestdijk",
      ...
    },
    "links": [
    {
      "self": ""
    } 
    ]
  }
  </pre>

  Example: feature collection
  <pre>
  {
    "type": "FeatureCollection",
    "features": [
    {
      "type": "Feature",
      "id": "0308100000022041",
      "geometry":  {
        "type": "Point",
        "coordinates": [5.2795,52.1933]
      },
      "properties": {
        "naam": "Paleis Soestdijk",
        ...
      },
      "links": [
      {
        "self": ""
      } 
      ]
    }],
    "timeStamp" : "2023-02-22T10:32:23Z",
    "numberMatched" : "0308100000022041",
    "numberReturned" : "1",
    "links": [
    {
      "self": ""
    } ,
    {
      "next": ""
    } ,
    ]
  }
  </pre>
  <p>
  Note that:
  
  - The resources' properties (e.g. <code>naam</code>) are passed in the properties object. Depending on the implemented filter capabilities the properties object may contain all or a selection of the resources' properties.

>   - The OGC API Fearures specifications provides the possibility to add an array of links to a feature and feature collection, which may contain a self link and in case of a feature collection may contain navigation links.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - The OGC API Features specification provides the possibility to add an array of links to a feature and feature collection, which may contain a self link and in case of a feature collection may contain navigation links.
```

    <li>Validate that the returned document is a GeoJSON Feature document.</li> 
  </ul>
  <p>
  Test case 2:
  </p>
  <ul>
    <li>Request a collection of resources that include feature content (i.e. coordinates) with response media type <code>application/geo+json</code> in the <code>Accept</code> header.</li>
    <li>Validate that a response with status code 200 is returned.</li>
    <li>Validate that <code>Content-Type</code> header contains <code>application/geo+json</code></li> 
    <li>Validate that the returned document is a GeoJSON FeatureCollection document.</li> 
  </ul>
  <p>
  Test case 3:
  </p>
  <ul>
    <li>Request a single resource that does not include feature content (i.e. coordinates) with response media type <code>application/geo+json</code> or <code>application/json</code> in the <code>Accept</code> header.</li>
    <li>Validate that a response with status code 200 is returned.</li>
    <li>Validate that <code>Content-Type</code> header contains <code>application/json</code></li> 
    <li>Validate that the returned document is a JSON document.</li> 
  </ul>
  <p>
  Test case 4:
  </p>
  <ul>

>     <li>Request a collection of resource that do not includes feature content (i.e. coordinates) with response media type <code>application/geo+json</code> or <code>application/json</code> in the <code>Accept</code> header.</li>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    <li>Request a collection of resources that do not include feature content (i.e. coordinates) with response media type <code>application/geo+json</code> or <code>application/json</code> in the <code>Accept</code> header.</li>
```

<div class="rule" id="api-geo-4">
  <p class="rulelab"><strong>API-GEO-4</strong>: Embed GeoJSON <code>Geometry</code> object as part of the JSON resource</p>
  <p>When a JSON (<code>application/json</code>) response contains a geometry, represent it in the same way as the <code>Geometry</code> object of GeoJSON.</p>

  Example: resource containing geometry
  <pre>
  {
    "identificatie": "0308100000022041",
    "naam": "Paleis Soestdijk",
    "geometrie":  {
      "type": "Point",
      "coordinates": [5.2795,52.1933]
    },
    ...,
    "_links": {
      {
        "self": ""
      }
    }
  }</pre>

  Example: collection of resources containing geometry
  <pre>
  {
    "&lt;plural of resource name&gt;": [
    {
      "identificatie": "0308100000022041",
      "naam": "Paleis Soestdijk",
      "geometrie":  {
        "type": "Point",
        "coordinates": [5.2795,52.1933]
      }
      ...
      "_links": {
        {
          "self": ""
        }
      }
    } ],
    "_links": {
      {
        "self": ""
      },
      {
        "next": ""
      }
    }
  }</pre>
  <p>
  Note that:
  

>   - The resource and resource collection may be HAL resources and therefor may contain a _links object, that shall contain a self link and in case of a collection may contain navigation links.

Reviewer: therefor > therefore

    <li>Validate that <code>Content-Type</code> header contains <code>application/json</code></li> 
    <li>Validate that the returned document is a JSON document.</li> 
    <li>Validate that the returned document contains a property that complies to the GeoJSON <code>Geometry</code> object metntioned above and contains: </li>
    <ul>
      <li>a property <code>type</code> containing the name of the GeoJSON <code>Geometry</code> object type: <code>GeometryCollection</code>, and</li>
      <li>a property <code>geometries</code> containing an array of GeoJSON <code>Geometry</code> objects.</li>
    </ul>
  </ul>
  <p>
  Test case 4:
  </p>
  <ul>
    <li>Request a collection of resources that contain geometry of GeoJSON <code>Geometry</code> object type: <code>GeometryCollection</code> and with response media type <code>application/json</code> in the <code>Accept</code> header.</li>
    <li>Validate that a response with status code 200 is returned.</li>
    <li>Validate that <code>Content-Type</code> header contains <code>application/json</code></li> 
    <li>Validate that the returned document is a JSON document.</li> 

>     <li>Validate that the returned document contains a property that complies to the GeoJSON <code>Geometry</code> object metntioned above and contains: </li>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    <li>Validate that the returned document contains a property that complies to the GeoJSON <code>Geometry</code> object mentioned above and contains: </li>
```

    <ul>
      <li>a property <code>type</code> containing the name of the GeoJSON <code>Geometry</code> object type: <code>GeometryCollection</code>, and</li>
      <li>a property <code>geometries</code> containing an array of GeoJSON <code>Geometry</code> objects.</li>
    </ul>
  </ul>
</div>

TO DO

> Moet hier ook iets worden gezegd over de naam van de property die de GeoJSON bevat? Als we hier kiezen voor geometry als naam (zoals ook voorgeschreven in OGC API Features, dan ontstaan er verschillen in de naamgeving van attributen in de resources. 

Reviewer: Ik zou dit vrij laten.
